### AP1

Early acting genes that determine the identity of the floral meristem and late acting genes that determine floral organ identity. AP1 required for the tranition of an infloresence meristem into a floral meristem.
Cloned the genes and showed that it encodes a MADS-box containing protein. Uniformly expressed in yound flower primordia and later becomes localised to sepals and petals. The development of secondary flowers can be interpreted as a partial conversaion of a floral meristem into an inflorescence meristem. No hybridizing RNA was detected in roots, stems, or leaves. Earliest expression of AP1 is in young flower primordia and increases as the flower primordia increase in size. AP1 uniformly expressed throughout the floral meristem but not in the infloresencece meristem. At later stages of development AP1 is confined to sepals and petals. From mutant studies, AG is a negative regulator and AP2 is a positive regulator. In lfy mutant there is a partial transformation of late arising flowers into inflorescence meristems, which is enhanced in a lfy ap1 double mutant. AP1 is an A class gene. [@alejandra_mandel_molecular_1992]

TFL1 represses AP1 in the inflorescence meristem. AG represses AP1 in the two inner whorls of WT flowers. AP1 RNA accumulation in the inner two whorls of WT flowers is negatively regulated by AG. TFL1, a gene involved in the maintenance of inflorescence meristem identity, negatively regulates AP1 RNA accumulation in the inflorescence meristem. AG negatively regulates AP1, preventing its expression in the inner two whorls. Found that AP2 is not a regulator, and that the loss of AP1 expression in the ap2 mutant is due to the ectopic expression of AG. AP1 is not necessary for the regulation of AG. Ectopic expression of AP1 and LFY are in part responsible for the conversion of inflorescence meristems into floral meristems. [@gustafson_brown_regulation_1994].

AP1 seems to repress FUL - likely not directly. FUL expressed in infloresence apical meristem and not expressed in flower primordia. FUL is expressed in carpels. [@mandel_arabidopsis_1995]

AP1 overexpression causes a transformation of apical and lateral shoots into flowers, with the plants flowering much earlier. AP1 overexpressed in lfy mutant also shows this conversion, although the flowers produced have the lfy mutant phenotype of sepaloid and carpelloid structures. AP1 is downstream of LFY [@mandel_gene_1995]

CO can act to promote flowering at any stage in plant development. Expression of CO from a constitutive promoter was sufficient to overcome the delay in flowering caused by short days. Active CO frequently terminated shoot development prematurely. AP1 was expressed more slowly in response to CO activation than in response to long days. LFY on the other hand responds at the same rate to CO or to exposure to long days. [@simon_activation_1996]

C-terminal domain of AP1 acts as a transcriptional activator. [@cho_analysis_1999].

LFY and AP1 consitutive promoters cause a reduction in the jeuvenile phase of citrus trees [@pena_constitutive_2001].

AGL24 and SVP only present during early flower development (stages 1 and 2). AP1 directly binds to B, C, and E MADS box floral organ identity genes. AP1-SVP AP1-AGL24 dimers Chip [@gregis_arabidopsis_2009].

AP1 acts upstream of the cytokinin biosynthesis and degradation pathways to suppress meristem activity in the sepal axils. [@han_cytokinin_2014]

Activated AP1 protein and looked at differential expression, and also performed AP1 Chip-Seq. 25% of AP1 targets are TFs. AP1 represses TFL1 and binds to at least two sites in the 3' region. More than 80% of AP1 targets were down-regulated. AP1 appears to establish floral meristem identity by repressing genes that are part of the shoot developmental program. [@kaufmann_orchestration_2010].

### FT

Graft experiments suggested the presence of a florigen, a flower inducing hormone that promotes flowering under inductive photoperiods [@lang_promotion_1977]

FT mutant shows delayed flowering in long days and moderatly delayed flowering in short days [@koornneef_genetic_1991].

Used activation tagging; T-DNA insertion of a viral promoter randomly in the genome. Found a mutant that flowered early regardless of day length and had terminal flowers. FT overexpresser causes AP1 expression in flower primordia. Also accelerates flowering regardless of day length and the status (over or underexpressed) TFL1. Long days in Col, FT expression in cotyledons, apex, hypocotyl but nothing in root. In both long and short days, FT levels in WT increased from young seedlings to older plants, with higher overall levels in long days. Changing CO activity has no effect in a FT overexpression background. FT overexpression caused induction of LFY.  [@kardailsky_activation_1999]

FT gradually increased in with time under both LD and SD photoperiods, although upregulation was delayed and reduced under SD conditions. In the CO mutant, upregulation of FT expression was delayed. Activation of inducible CO causes upregulation of FT, indicating regulation. As upregulation of FT occurs eventually in co mutants and in SD photoperiods there is likely a photoperiod independent pathway. Early flowering of FT overexpressers was correlated with FT mRNA levels. LFY and FT overexpressers produced a terminal flower as soon as the plant germinated. [@kobayashi_pair_1999]

Found a single amino acid residue change conferred TFL1 activity to FT and vica versa. [@hanzawa_single_2005]

FT-dependent accumulation of FUL and SEP3. Full FT action in the leaf is dependent on FD. FT overexpressor flower early. Found a response to ambient temperature changes with the FT overexpresser line. Temperature affected the ability of FT to affect the expression of SEP3. SEP3 necessary for the leaf curling phenotype observed. [@teper_bamnolker_flowering_2005]

FT is the major output of CO activity, and FT acts upstream of SOC1[@yoo_constans_2005]

FLC binds to the SOC1 promoter and to the first intron of FT, consistent with FLC based repression of these genes. FLC proteins are able to form homodimers. [@helliwell_arabidopsis_2006]

In SD grown plants, FT mRNA is low, whereas FT expression was increased in each long day. The expression of FT returned to low levels after return to short days. Inducible CO protein; induction lead to FT increase, with the increase not being seen in untreated leaves. In situ hybridisation experiments and GFP fusions suggested that the FT protein moves from the phloem companion cells to the meristem, as no FT mRNA was detected in the apex. Graft experiments also suggest the FT protein moves. FT protein expressed in the minor veins so to keep it in the leaf is not able to accelerate flowering, suggesting that the hypothesis of FT activating a secondary messanger is wrong. [@corbesier_ft_2007]

FT protein is what moves to the apex. FT with a nuclear localization peptide addition was not able to rescue ft mutants when expressed in the vasculature, but was able to rescue the phenotype when expressed in the apex [@jaeger_ft_2007].

Silenced FT just in phloem companion cells and still found the same effect on flowering as if it was silenced all over the plant.[@mathieu_export_2007]

FT protein is transported from donor to apical region of the recipient within a short period of 24-28 hours. [@notaguchi_long_distance_2008]

FT protein expressed in the leaf is transported to the axillary bud and promotes the floral transition of the axillary meristem. BRC1 inhibits this function of FT. [@niwa_branched1_2013]

FT is an early target of CO. ft mutant delayed the early flowering phenotype of a CO overexpressor, but only partially suppressed the phenotype. [@samach_distinct_2000]

### SOC1

Identified as a gene which was differentially expressed after CO protein activation. Overexpression of SOC1 from 35S promoter caused early flowering under both long and short days. SOC1 not detected in shoot apex of SD grown plants, but present in SAM and leaf primordia of plants in continuous light. Expressed in inflorescence meristem but excluded from young floral primordia. Regulated by autonomous pathway. Shown to have an age response in co and fca mutant background. Upregulation in the CO-activation line was while protein translation was inhibited, suggesting CO activates soc1 directly. [@samach_distinct_2000]

SOC1 overexpression suppresses the effects of FRI. Early flowering in a Col-FRI background. SOC1 mutant flowered late in long and short days, but was later in long days, indicating a photoperiod response, SOC1 overexpression line flowered more rapidly under long days than under short days and still responded to vernalization treatment. FRI in Col background delays the transition from juvenile to adult plant, which SOC1 overexpression sped up, but wasn't able to fully revert the phenotype. Dosage effect of the gene. LFY expression repressed by FRI and SOC1 overexpression cannor overcome such repression. LFY overexpression is able to rescue the late flowering phenotype of Col-FRI. LFY overexpression leads to the formation of flowers in the axils of cauline leaves. When SOC1 is overexpressed in a nonfunctional FRI background, there is conversion of secondary shoots to flowers. Strong expression in the SAM and weaker expression in the leaf primordia during vegetative growth. When the SAM produced flower meristems, the expression domain was expanded and SOC1 was also detected in developing leaves. In Col, expression was strongest in leaves but also detected in vegetative apicies, inflorescence, stems and roots. Increase after floral transition. Negatively regulated by FRI and FLC. Plants grown under short days had less SOC1 expression than long day grown plants. [@lee_agamous_like_2000]

CO overexpressor flowered earlier than wild type under both long and short days. All suppressor mutations of the overexpressor were late flowering when not in the overexpressor background. Two of the suppressor mutations are alleles of FT, while one was an allele of FWA. SOC1 mutants delay flowering under both long and short days. SOC1 mutant has the same effect as FT mutants in both WT and CO overexpressor. [@onouchi_mutagenesis_2000]

CO and FLC have antagonistic effects on flowering time and overexpression of CO can largely overcome the delay in flowering caused by overexpression of FLC. SOC1 and FT were more highly expressed in a CO overexpressor than in WT. FLC overexpression in a CO overexpression background caused SOC1 and FT expression to dramatically decrease. SOC1:GUS not identified in inflorescences and flowers. Found CArG box in the SOC1 promoter found to be bound by FLC in vitro and required for repression in vivo. However, deletion of the binding site did not competely abolish repression. [@hepworth_antagonistic_2002]

Late flowering when knocked out in both long and short days. Found the expression of SOC1 to increase during development, and to be regulated by flowering time genes from both the autonomous and photoperiod pathways. Also showed that SOC1 expression was increased when the plants were treated with GA. SOC1 not expressed in the apical meristem of plants still in the vegetative stage. WT plants have higher amounts of AGL20 in leaves under long days. [@borner_mads_2000]

Rescuing a GA biosynthesis mutant with GA treatment causes a concurrent increase in SOC1 expression. Increase not due to FLC or FT expression, as they did not respond to GA treatment. SOC1 mutant is less sensitive to GA treatment. SOC1 and FT increase during cold in a FLC independent manner; experiments carried out in FLC mutant. SOC1 activation during vernalization in short days is dependent on GA. Repression of FLC is not sufficient for SOC1 activation. However, SOC1 is not the only flowering time determinant regulated by GA. Propose that the GA pathway is the only flowering pathway under short days, and that removal of FLC repression is a prerequisite but is not sufficient for flowering. [@moon_soc1_2003]

Microarray analysis of the shift from short to long day growth. Upregulation of SOC1 in long days affected by both ft and co mutants. SOC1 induction was severely affected by FLC activity. Compared to CO and FT, a mutation in LFY has much more subtle effects, indicating that LFY acts further downstream in the floral induction cascade. Found MADS domain proteins and SBP proteins are highly overrepresented among the genes that are induced in response to photoperiod.[@schmid_dissection_2003]

FT and TSF activation tagged lines flowered early. In the TSF activation line, FT is downregulated and visa verca - potential negative feedback between the genes. Overexpression caused earlier flowering in SD than in LD. In a FRI containing background TSF activation completely suppressed the delayed flowering effect of FRI in LD. FT and TSF suppress the late flowering phenotype of FLC overexpression. Therefore they likely act downstream, rather than reducing the expression of FLC. SOC1 expression upregulated in the tagged lines. FLC expression alone is not sufficient to downregulate SOC1. FT expression was slightly higher in a SOC1 overexpressor line, although may be due to different developmental stages of the plants. FT::GUS was reduced in vernalization sensitive lines, and this repression was dosage dependent. FT and TSF act partially redundantly. [@michaels_integration_2005]

Generated double and triple mutants with a soc1 null mutant. SOC1 further delayed the flowering time of the long day pathway mutants. Additive effect suggests SOC1 regulates flowering partially independently of the long day pathway. soc1 null mutation had no effect on some autonomous pathway (fca, ld) or Col-FRI lines. soc1 in a fve line led to a further delay. Up-regulation of SOC1 is required for full promotion of flowering by vernalization, although ft soc1 double mutants still showed a vernalization response. Flowering time still is affected by FLC in ft soc1 double mutants, indicating additional targets of FLC. soc1 delayed flowering but had little effect on the number of coflorescences that produce secondary shoots, while lfy mutant didn't affect flowering time but had an effect on the colorescences. The double showed many more coflorescences indicating that SOC1 has a functional redundancy with LFY in regulating floral initiation. ft soc1 additive flowering time effect. FT, SOC1 and LFY have both overlapping and independent functions on flowering time determination and floral initiation. FT and LFY have the least overlapping fucntion among the three as the double mutant was very different. Double overexpression lines generally showed additive behaviour. FT -> SOC1 -> LFY. In rice SOC1 mutants affect FT expression, indicating that in that species the interactions are different (different ref). The FT, SOC1 and LFY triple mutant still flowered, indicating other integrators.[@moon_analysis_2005]

Null mutants in agl24, svp and soc1 reduced the effects of an ap1 null mutant. Ectopic expression of AGL24 and SOC1 in ap1 mutant. Induced AP1 activity represses the expresion of SVP and SOC1. AP1 found to bind the regulatory sequences of AGL24, SVP and SOC1. [@liu_specification_2007]

Looked for suppressor of SOC1 overexpression. Found mutations disrupting the SOC1 protein. SOC1 binds LFY promoter. SOC1 is cytosolic, expression with AGL24 allows it to enter the nucleus. The MADS and I domain were found to be important for AGL24 dimerization. AGL24 binds with SOC1 at the LFY promoter. AGL24 is expressed in shoots, stems and inflorescence, but not expressed in roots and young leaves. LFY is only expressed where AGL24 and SOC1 are coexpressed. [@lee_soc1_2008]

AGL24 is a direct regulator of SOC1. SOC1 is upregulated by AGL24 at the shoot apex. SOC1 also found to upregulate AGL24. Created an inducible AGL24 line. The later the AGL24 is induced, the less effect is seen on flowering time. SOC1 activated by AGL24. Found a AGL24 binding site in the promoter of SOC1. SOC1 was found to bind the AGL24 promoter. SOC1 found to bind AP1. AGL24 and SOC1 upregulate each other in response to GA [@liu_direct_2008]

Floral activator SOC1 acts as a negative regulator of the cold response pathway through the direct repression of CBFs. Upregulation of cold-inducible genes in a soc1 null and decreased expression in a SOC1 overexpression under LD and 22oC. Same was true for CBF genes. Cold responsive genes are also cirdacian controlled, but their circadean control was independent of SOC1. ICE1 and HOS1 were not affected by SOC1 changes. Therefore, SOC1 suppresses the cold response pathway through the repression of CBF genes, and it was found there are SOC1 binding sites at the CBF genes. FLC expression increased by CBF overexpression. SOC1 has an effect on freezing tolerance. SOC1 proposed as part of the intermittent cold-sensing pathway for flowering. Vernalization causes a strong induction of CBF genes. [@seo_crosstalk_2009]

mir156 expressed from phloem or apex specific promoters delayed flowering. FUL, SOC1 and AGL42 levels were increased in plants with increased SPL levels. SOC1 and FUL are expressed before AP1 SOC1 and AGL42 are direct SPL8 targets determined with Chip. FUL and SOC1 induction was delayed in fd mutants. FD and SPLs act in parallel. mir156 / SPL pathway is independent of FT/FD. [@wang_mir156_2009]

Review of SOC1 function. [@lee_regulation_2010]

Used ChiP-seq and yeast one hybrid to look at the up and downstream regulators of SOC1. CHIP-Seq peaks found at the SOC1 promoter, suggesting self-regulation. SVP, CBF, SEP3, AP3, PI, SHP2 are all bound by SOC1. SOC1 expression is reduced in inducible AP1, SEP3 and AG lines. AP1 and AG were only able to down regulate SOC1 when WT SOC1 is present, whereas SEP3 can act on the SEP3 promoter independently of SOC1. Proposed that SOC1 directly represses the B-class genes AP3 and PI. SOC1, SVP and AGL24 jointly provide the floral meristem a short lag time in which differentiation is suppressed allowing the establishment of sufficient cells for the inner floral whorls. AP1, SEP3 and AG repress SOC1. [@immink_characterization_2012]

FLC binds to the SOC1 promoter and to the first intron of FT, consistent with FLC based repression of these genes. FLC proteins are able to form homodimers. [@helliwell_arabidopsis_2006]

### CO

CO::GUS expression detected in the vascular tissue of the hypocotyl, the cotyledons and the leaves. Expression also detected at the apex and in the cells of young leaves, restricted to vascular tissue in older leaves. CO expression in the phloem is sufficient to trigger flowering and that expression in the leaf and meristem was not required. ft mutation delayed flowering of phloem expressed CO, but was not as delayed as a ft mutation. CO is vasculature expressed; doesn't move to leaf or meristem. [@an_constans_2004]

Response of FUL, SOC1, SPL3-5 and LFY were only attenuated by co and ft knockouts in a short-long day shift experiment, indicating a CO-independent photoperiod response of these genes [@schmid_dissection_2003]
